**[undisclosed location]**

I am now installed at [undisclosed location]. The space is amazing. As I write
this I am sat at my new desk. I found out yesterday, from meeting an obviously
crazy, but very nice neighbour in our apartment house (we are fortunate enough
to be able to rent) ~~garbageRoom~~ freeShop that the type of wood in the desk,
that I found there the day before is Teak and that Teak is a tropical hardwood.
I can tell you that it is a very good, strong, sturdy desk. It is not too big.
Definitely not imposing in any way. I'd say it is a modest desk. It has drawers
that I have just started thinking of how to fill in the best way. The items in
the drawers should serve me well and therefore need to be kept close by, but out
of sight. The office has a window with a view. I have put up shelves upon which
I can place items. Also I added another hook adjacent to the one that was
already on the wall behind the door. I hang my jacket on one hook and my
backPack on the other. I am contented. I have the feeling that I will be able to
do more focused work here. It is quite a marvelous thing to witness. A whole
other place, existing solely for this purpose, to give me the opportunity to
focus my efforts.

<br>

**Summer Mine Tour**

Oh wow let me tell you all about my summer. It was super intense. I am so
grateful. First I got to perform Intersections of traversals in Mimer which is
this amazing defunct iron ore mine that Norbergfestival uses as the biggest
stage. After that I got to play Ställbergs Gruva which was amazing.
 
<br>

**One hour at EMS**

I had what I felt was a contained scope for an idea to create a utility on the
Buchla. I figured I could make impulse responses of the spectral processor. I
used The Source of Uncertainty module. I always felt that was a fun name for a
noise generator. Sure, it does a couple of things, so I guess that's why it has
such a fun name. After the noise I used an envelope in the Quad Function
Generator. I remembered that the toggle for just effecting amplitude is called
gate, but then I ran into the trouble of the envelope times maxing out at ten
seconds. I used to do the trick where I added an offset to the envelope times
from the joystick on the module with the keys at the bottom, but that had been
switched out now. I am fine with that and I knew that I had to use that control
utility module, but I couldn't remember how to use it to add voltage to get
longer times out of the envelope. Daniel Araya reminded me how to do it and was
very nice about it. Only had an hour for this and I think that I can use the
material. Smash + grab.

<br>

**Ställbergs Gruva is so dreamy**

I was at Ställbergs Gruva for the first part of a two part residency. It was
amazing and very intense, even though we said that we would not push it to the
same level we did last year. Going in I had the idea to make materials. I also
wanted to try to find a new way to connect to the place. I was guessing that
would mean some kind of brushing up against the dreaded field recording bag. I
ended up doing more of a reamping thing. Chickening out maybe. It's that whole
preferences exist thing again more likely. I might have a recording of a freight
train going by. I set it up and I think it went by but I don't know if it will
be audible. I found a metal box. It was a very good box. It was old. The metal
was quite thin. It could rattle. That's my thing that I like now; Introducing
some kind of strange nonlinearity. Passing sound through physical objects or
materials maybe is a more accurate description. The low bass from my transducer
made the box and sometimes another metal sheet rattle with the microphones
inside the lid of the box. All kinds of unfathomably complex acoustic phenomenon
going on inside that box. Crazy Dave helped me out with a little snip that let's
me have a new kind of control over pitchbend. In the back of my mind somewhere
there was the idea of how we make impulse responses. I did a bunch of takes
where I very slowly bent some nice Tuba samples over an octave at increasing
pitches slower and slower as I went up through the range of the tuba. I have a
bunch of these tuba sweeps down through the nodes of that box at different
speeds. The boundary between the technical and the artistic is now a
semitransparent glistening. An imagined shimmering perhaps, inspiring none the
less. I also met Hanna who is a graphic designer and a talented singer. She has
a truly unique voice. Made a bunch of recordings of her singing beautifully in a
low, almost Contralto range. Went through a list of phonemes. It is a very
delicate material that feels very personal. Extremely generous of her to agree
to be recorded in that way. A photograph can in no way steal a soul. I also shot
from the hip and made a new FFT based snyth that can do a strange kind of
Celestial mechanicsesque layered, instance-based "glissando" with crazy
nonlinear bumps that seem to behave very differently depending on what has been
happening recently. Feedback is so vast and I just keep feeling so inspired
coming back to it. I don't think that is ever going to change. I also recorded
some Micro Modular patches through Maskinhallen. Put some doubled up glassed
takes of the tuba glissandos through the room also. Oh and also a short realtime
RM ebow electric guitar thing right at the end there. I was very sad to leave.
Coming back home I felt lost. I eventually felt better messing around with a
metal tray from the kitchen. Through that I found my way back to using tinfoil.
Just like old times. Thinner metal is good with the transducer as it turns out.
Making new takes of the FFT thing through the transducer on a double folded
sheet of tinfoil, crumpled up just right around the edges so they make the most
delicate rasping against the metal tray from the kitchen.

<br>

**Out the door**

I had a very strong experience listening to music and letting my mind drift
yesterday. I was listening to an Earth, Wind & Fire track called Fantasy.
Halfway way through the track there's this amazing change. A little motif gets
transposed around and that makes all of these amazing modulations possible. I
started to daydream about playing that same song in an Earth Wind & Fire tribute
band with all of the composition teachers I've ever had in all of my life. We
had the full kit complete with the amazing clothes and we were really nailing
it, _together_. Our voices rang as one. We were all right there together in the
dream making it come true. What an amazingly lush and groovy music. I was really
in it. All the way through in the daydream. First it made me laugh, and then it
made me cry, because I haven't always been entirely in agreement with every
aspect of how all of the teachers I've ever had. How they have gone about trying
to teach me to compose has sometimes created tensions between us. It felt
amazing to be doing something together, all of us getting along, and really
grooving out as one. I am supposed to be at the top of the ladder now. I dunno
tho, I feel like I just got started, right at the edge of an infinite plain. I
think my tripping out on that Earth, Wind & Fire fueled daydream so intensely
might have something to do with my handing in what is supposed to be my final
revision of my master thesis, and for that to now be reviewed for my final grade
yesterday. Might could be.

<br>

**Polytempic piano flags etude**

I was at the school feeling lost the other day so I sat down for a bit in an
empty rehearsal room that had an old Steinway in it. The tuning was ok for the
strings I used. Nothing spectacular though. I sat for a bit and spun up an idea.
I recorded the stems I needed for a rough mockup. It's that whole polytempic,
rhythm as texture kind of thing again.

<br>

<div class="dmk-player" data-playlist="etudes/index.json"></div>

<br>

**Ruins in the distance port**

Thanks to [David Granström](https://davidgranstrom.com/)'s enormous patience and
tremendous skill, I am now able to move my longest running composition project
to my very own site. It feels great to this rolling finally. I've been dreaming
about creating my own archive for this and other projects since the beginning.
Especially with Ruins in the distance my work has been about iterative design.
I regard each track as it's own composition in earnest while at the same time
relating to the larger arc which is formed by all of the pieces taken together
as a whole. They reflect my interests at a given time. They document my place in
an ongoing exploration of a framework. My site is now the place to go for anyone
wanting to keep tabs on further development of this particular project and other
endeavours. This is part of an ongoing effort to steer away from dependence on
commercial platforms and to begin to dismantle my presence on the commercial
internet.

<br>

**TFW you academia**

I may not be utilizing my current situation to the fullest extent. There is an
opportunity here. I could come out of this one of an infinite number of ways.
There are tools at my disposal. However brief I have some moments of clarity. I
may be on the verge of finding my voice. This has, of course, always been true.
I'm in a constant flux between faking it and feeling it, always. Never arriving.
Kept at an unknowable distance from my destination. The task is not important
really. The only thing that truly matters is cultivating drive. Purpose is
scarce in life. For me to even sense it, however faint of a glimmering, I'm
grateful for the opportunity. I want to go along with the hunch that something
is calling, right at the edge of what can be dreamt. A chance to fool myself
into surviving. That's the thing. Why everything is the way it is with me. My
position on the quality of my work wavers a lot. Doubt is a big part of my
wiring. I try things out, see how they go. My thinking about strategies for not
getting stuck are mostly based on cautionary tales. They are for sure
misunderstandings about how stuff works. How people are, and what they felt, I
have no idea about. I have the tiniest little window through which I can catch
maybe a glimpse. That glimpse then gets thrown around, inside my experiences and
matched up roughly to something I think I can relate to. Then my own narrative
takes over. It's just me in here. I'm alone with my thoughts. Just like
everyone else.

<br>

**What we wish were true**

• Portability  
• Transparency   
• Simplicity     
• Affordability  

I am afforded some discretionary time. I would like to spend it making music.
Computers fascinate me. They allow me a degree of control while engaged in the
task of organizing sound. I would like to have more control so I am always
configuring my computer. Even though a lot has changed about the way I’ve made
music over the years I find it easy to recognize myself in what I hear still.

.wav files

I make files. For the longest time, I’ve been making .wav files. Ever since the
beginning. I would like for that to change now. I am constantly being redrawn
into the dream of creating a new kind of file. A new file format, with entirely
new capabilities, enabling new modes of expression for a new kind of artist
working with code to interface with sound.

.tau files

A terminal session and an audio stream in sample accurate sync would really be
something useful for a lot of folks I’d argue. To quickly get a feel for what
I’m on about here check out this site that [Sam
Keating-Fry](https://xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx.xxx/) made for [Renick
Bell’s Empty Lake release on UIQ](http://empty-lake.u-i-q.org/). Ideally I’d
like for there to be a CLI application running in a terminal on a computer
playing the .tau file. As we’ve seen on the site that Sam made; A terminal is
not constrained to running locally on your machine. It can also live in the
browser. Everyone has a browser right? This extends _portability_
tremendously.

Let’s skip ahead to where some kid is watching and listening to a .tau file
being played in a terminal held within a browser. Vis has no idea what it is or
how it works. Just stumbled on it haphazardly somehow wading through the
wreckage of The Public Internet. The file can be paused like a video file. When
paused the text in the player can be copied. This is a fundamental difference.
The viewer is immediately invited to copy and to build upon the material being
presented. This leads expectations away from code being presented for cosmetic
purposes towards _transparency_.

I am now looking at [termtosvg](https://github.com/nbedos/termtosvg) and the
possibility of [putting audio inside a .svg
file.](http://xn--dahlstrm-t4a.net/svg/audio/html5-audio-in-svg.svg)

<br>

[//]: # ([.ndx](../) | <a href="#" onClick="goToURL()">.rnd</a>)

<br>
<br>

<script>
function goToURL() {
    var links = [
        ".",
        "./img",
        "./irc",
    ];

    // get a random number between 0 and the number of links
    var randIdx = Math.round(Math.random() * (links.length - 1));
    // construct the link to be opened
    var root = window.location.protocol + '//' + window.location.host;
    var link = root + '/' + links[randIdx];

    document.location.href = link;
};
</script>

<script async type="text/javascript" src="/player/dmk-player.js?v=5"></script>
<script>
window.addEventListener('load', function () {
  var elements = document.getElementsByClassName('dmk-player');
  var players = Array.from(elements).map(function (el) {
    if (el.dataset) {
      var rootUrl = window.location.origin;
      var playlist = el.dataset.playlist;
      var isVideo = !!el.dataset.isVideo;
      var layout = {
        title: false,
        elapsedTime: false
      };
      var options = {
        playlist: playlist,
        isVideo: isVideo,
        rootUrl: rootUrl
      };
      return new DMKPlayer(el, options, layout);
    }
  });
  players.forEach(function (player, index) {
    player.index = index;
    player.on('play', function () {
      players.forEach(function (p) {
        if (p.index !== player.index && p.isPlaying) {
          p.stop();
        }
      });
    });
  });
});


</script>
