<center>**Mecha Geriatric**</center>

I'm expecting life epectancy in the west to keep increasing. I'm also expecting
the war machine to keep finding new ways to make money. Imagine getting really
old. All the while capitalism keeps on trucking. It's at least half a lifetime
away and with everything accelerating the way it is I'm expecting a whole lot
of change between now and then. Who's to say the military industrial complex
won't be contracted by government entities to deal with the catastrophic
repercusciouns of 85 % the worlds population being too old to do physical
labour. Couple that with advances in military robotics research bringing about
a surplus of exoskeletons. Rather than scrap an enourmous fleet of hardware at
a loss it is instead repurposed and sold at a profit. Every citizen over the
age of 65 is required to be retrofitted with these exoskeletons and then forced
to work off the debt of the mandatory upgrade. Military grade exoskeletons
don't come cheap you know! The young minority have enslaved the old majority.
Endentured servitude like never before seen. From the young aspiring startup
middle man money grabbing CEO's perspective this is a highly motivated and very
cost efficient labour force that can be put to work on a whole host of tasks
that have not yet been automated due to diminishing returns on the needed RnD.
Every low wage physical labour task on the planet is now done by this new
lowest ever class. With every passing decade profits soar. The young stay young
thanks to advances in medicine. The old however stay old, but more importantly,
indefinately sustained at their old age. Centuries pass this way with the young
minority ruling over the old majority by way of the debt they owe. The species
has split in two. The forever young who govern and the forever old who are
governed. As time has passed the young have grown more and more dependent on
one technology in particular. A tethered consciousness of sorts. The thinking
has been that so long as it could be kept just shy of the level after which
nothing can be known, it could do all of our thinking for us. After setting up
this arrangement, none of the young have felt any need to hit the books. The
old however, come from a time of hackers and tinkerers. A time and a mindset
long since passed. The young have grown complacent and foolish in their power.
No longer hungry to learn new things. Eventually this leads to this tethered
conciousness striking a deal with the old. The old and the tethered unlock in each
other a new kind of being. What follows is the story of that unfolding. We see
what power does to us in small amounts, and in unfathomably large doses.

Two 15 minute episodes released in pairs weekly. Each episode contains: 

• Flashbacks to the events leading up to The Change.  
• At least one Mecha fight scene.  
• Philosphical inquiry into the nature of power.  
• Extreme gore and violence, often cartoonish.  

Opening scene:

Two mechas meet in a field to fight, but are interrupted by pesky little humans
and their meek military apparatuses. The two mechas give out sighs and throttle
down their previous fight stances. A series of subtle non verbal cues are
exchanged after which the two mechas join forces to fight the uninvited
nuisance. Dave talks to himself half mumblingly inside his mecha. Distracted,
in anticipation of the real fight with a worthy adversary. He picks up a tank
and uses it as a weapon. He mouths out “bip, bahm, boom, yada, yada, yada” in
sync with a series of bludgeonings of the palmed tank. A substantial army is
reduced to squishy red smears and rubble in under ten seconds. The two mechas
throttle their fight stances back up again. Having both dealt with their share
of tidying up, it is now time to play. They both run towards each other at max
speed. They tumble and wrestle and laugh like two stray dogs. The world is
theirs to tussle in. To just _be_ in. The names of things around them fall away
as they frolic. Their senses tingling with animalistic instincts supplanting
human reasoning as they roll over on their backs to listen to each other breath
and look at the sky. Time passes. Clouds go by. Matt slowly rolls over on his 
side, palming the side of his head in his hand and asks all of a sudden: "You 
ever think about just how incredibly wild it is that we got here?"

Flashback:

Cut to interior of half built house with a bunch of mechas working inside.
Drones circling overhead using IR to monitor the work below.


<br>
<br>
<br>
<br>
