**Ruins in the distance**

Quite a few years ago now, I started building an instrument based on feedback in
my computer. I was away in some other town at the time. I was selling my time,
and regretting it. I desperately needed a way to express something other than
servitude. I've kept working on this project ever since, and it has evolved and
changed a lot over the course of maintaining this project. I enjoy the
environment that the instrument has become very much. It feels a lot like having
a conversation with an old friend at this point. Most days I'll use what I've
already built to make music, but every now and then I'll want to try a new idea
of some kind. I'll then rebuild some aspect of how to control things, using a
different approach, or I might add new functionality, or I might tweak the
behavior of some aspect of the synthesis. This work is very rewarding for me and
I hope I get to keep exploring this for a long time. My ambition is to make a
new audio file every day and to post that here in my archive. This routine helps
me stay balanced. This project gives me the opportunity to return to a
particular way of listening that I enjoy. As I am returning again and again to
the same place, I am fascinated by how I get to experience new things each time.
I am reminded of the story of the stone garden in Ry≈çanji. It's impossible to
view all of the stones held within the garden from any vantage point. The
parameter space in this project is similar in that it is very large. A
tremendous amount of variation is possible at least. <br> I like to keep busy. I 
never want to have the kind of problem where I've lost touch with what it feels
like to complete a piece of music. This way, the last time I felt it, <br>
is never more than a day away.

<div class="dmk-player" data-playlist="ruins/index.json"></div>

<br>

<script async type="text/javascript" src="/player/dmk-player.js?v=5"></script>
<script>
window.addEventListener('load', function () {
  var elements = document.getElementsByClassName('dmk-player');
  var players = Array.from(elements).map(function (el) {
    if (el.dataset) {
      var rootUrl = window.location.origin;
      var playlist = el.dataset.playlist;
      var isVideo = !!el.dataset.isVideo;
      var layout = {
        title: false,
        elapsedTime: false
      };
      var options = {
        playlist: playlist,
        isVideo: isVideo,
        rootUrl: rootUrl
      };
      return new DMKPlayer(el, options, layout);
    }
  });
  players.forEach(function (player, index) {
    player.index = index;
    player.on('play', function () {
      players.forEach(function (p) {
        if (p.index !== player.index && p.isPlaying) {
          p.stop();
        }
      });
    });
  });
});
</script>
